README.versioning.md, before:

# Promoting Coral to a new version

## Prerequisites 

Only version up and tag your branch once it is ready to merge. This will prevent version and tag conflicts when attempting to push up the version bump.

## Correct branch and up to date

Make sure your currently on the branch you would like to promote to a new version. Double check you are up to date with the latest `origin/dev`.

```
git pull origin/dev
```

## Bumping the Python version

Navigate to `coral/settings.py`. Towards the top of the file you will see:

```
APP_VERSION = semantic_version.Version(major=3, minor=5, patch=2)
```

Depending on the level of your change you should increment the correct level of semantic versioning. For example:

- If you are working on a feature, `minor` should be bumped to 6.
- If you are working on a fix, `patch` should be bumped to 3.
- If you have implemented a breaking change that isn't backwards compatible. You should promote `major` to 4 and reset `minor` and `patch` to 0. Resulting in `4.0.0`.

## Committing a new version

After you have updated `settings.py` you will want to make a commit which **only** contains this file. The commit message format should be:

```
version: v3.5.2
```

## Tagging the new version

Following creation of the new commit you must tag the version that was used **on the same commit the version bump took place**. For example if I used `git log` the most recent commit message should read `version: v3.5.2`. Once you have confirmed your on the right commit run:

```
git tag v3.5.2
```

## Pushing the changes

That's it complete and you can push up the changes and the newly created tags using:

```
git push
git push --tags
```

# Git utility

To simplify the process, the following git alias is useful for creating the commit and tag at the same time. It works like so:

```
git ver v3.5.2
```

Which will create a new commit with the message `version: v3.5.2` and a new tag `v3.5.2`. They can then be pushed up to the repository.

## Functionality

Below is the operation of the version command. You can also use `git ver undo` to revert the version commit and tag.

```bash
!f() { \
    if [ "$1" = "undo" ]; then \
        git reset HEAD^ && git tag -d "$(git describe --tags $(git rev-list --tags --max-count=1))"; \
    else \
        git commit -m "version: $1" && git tag "$1"; \
    fi; \
}; f
```

## Configuring the alias

Run the following command to configure the alias onto your git config. If your curious you have a global `.gitconfig` at your user directory usually accessible at `~/.gitconfig`. Have a look with `more ~/.gitconfig` before and after to see the newly added alias.

```bash
git config --global alias.ver '!f() { \
    if [ "$1" = "undo" ]; then \
        git reset HEAD^ && git tag -d $(git describe --tags $(git rev-list --tags --max-count=1)); \
    else \
        git commit -m "version: $1" && git tag "$1"; \
    fi; \
}; f'
```

Commit message:

docs: updated versioning to refer to the git standards in reference of conventional commits

README.versioning.md, after:

# Promoting Coral to a new version

## Prerequisites 

- Recommended to read `README.git.md` before progressing onto this document.
- Only version up and tag your branch once it is ready to merge. This will prevent version and tag conflicts when attempting to push up the version bump.

## Correct branch and up to date

Make sure your currently on the branch you would like to promote to a new version. Double check you are up to date with the latest `origin/dev`.

```
git pull origin/dev
```

## Bumping the Python version

Navigate to `coral/settings.py`. Towards the top of the file you will see:

```
APP_VERSION = semantic_version.Version(major=3, minor=5, patch=2)
```

Depending on the level of your change you should increment the correct level of semantic versioning. By this point will have already determined your change objective and put that into your branch name. For example:

### Most common scenarios

- If you have implemented a breaking change that isn't backwards compatible. You should promote `major` to 4 and reset `minor` and `patch` to 0. Resulting in `4.0.0`.
- If you are working on a feature, `minor` should be bumped to 6.
- If you are working on a fix, `patch` should be bumped to 3.

### Other conventional commit spec

You can use the other descriptions provided by conventional commits. Just make sure to correctly identify your change within semantic versioning.

- **chore:** can be `major`, `minor` or `patch` depends entirely on your change
- **docs:** can be `minor`
- **build:** can be `major`, `minor` or `patch` depends entirely on your change
- **ci:** can be `major`, `minor` or `patch` depends entirely on your change
- **perf:** can be `major`, `minor` or `patch` depends entirely on your change
- **refactor:** can be `major` or `minor` since theres a possibility functionality was broken
- **style:** can be `patch`
- **revert:** can be `patch`
- **test:** can be `patch`

## Committing a new version

After you have updated `settings.py` you will want to make a commit which **only** contains this file. The commit message format should be:

```
version: v3.5.2
```

## Tagging the new version

Following creation of the new commit you must tag the version that was used **on the same commit the version bump took place**. For example if I used `git log` the most recent commit message should read `version: v3.5.2`. Once you have confirmed your on the right commit run:

```
git tag v3.5.2
```

## Pushing the changes

That's it complete and you can push up the changes and the newly created tags using:

```
git push
git push --tags
```

# Git utility

To simplify the process, the following git alias is useful for creating the commit and tag at the same time. It works like so:

```
git ver v3.5.2
```

Which will create a new commit with the message `version: v3.5.2` and a new tag `v3.5.2`. They can then be pushed up to the repository.

## Functionality

Below is the operation of the version command. You can also use `git ver undo` to revert the version commit and tag.

```bash
!f() { \
    if [ "$1" = "undo" ]; then \
        git reset HEAD^ && git tag -d "$(git describe --tags $(git rev-list --tags --max-count=1))"; \
    else \
        git commit -m "version: $1" && git tag "$1"; \
    fi; \
}; f
```

## Configuring the alias

Run the following command to configure the alias onto your git config. If your curious you have a global `.gitconfig` at your user directory usually accessible at `~/.gitconfig`. Have a look with `more ~/.gitconfig` before and after to see the newly added alias.

```bash
git config --global alias.ver '!f() { \
    if [ "$1" = "undo" ]; then \
        git reset HEAD^ && git tag -d $(git describe --tags $(git rev-list --tags --max-count=1)); \
    else \
        git commit -m "version: $1" && git tag "$1"; \
    fi; \
}; f'
```
